# Connect an app to Azure storage.

Explore Azure storage services
  Microsoft Azure Storage is a managed service that provides durable, secure, and scalable storage in the cloud.

  Important : A single azure subscription can hold up to 200 storage accounts and each storage account can hold
  up to 500 TB of data.

  Azure Data Service
  There are 4 different types of data services which are available in Azure storage accounts

  1) Azure Blobs : Ideal for storing text, image and audio/video files. It supports Azure data lake Storage Gen2.
  Blob storage is ideal for:
    a) Serving images or documents directly to a browser, including full static websites.
    b) Storing files for distributed access.
    c) Streaming video and audio.
    d) Storing data for backup and restoration, disaster recovery, and archiving.
    e) Storing data for analysis by an on-premises or Azure-hosted service.

    There are 3 types of blobs,
    a) Block Blobs : A block blob is used to store text or binary files up to ~5TB in size. We can store around
                     50000 blocks each with maximum size of 100 MB.
    b) Page Blobs : Page blobs hold random access files up 8TB in size. It is used as backing storage Virtual Hard Disk (VHD)
                    images for Azure Virtual Machines. Each page in page blob can hold data of 512 bytes.
    c) Append Blobs : These are made up of block blobs but they are optimized for append operations. These Blobs are
                    used to hold log data. A single append blob can be up to 195 GB.

  2) Azure Files : This data service is used to make highly scalable file share on cloud. This support SMB 3.0 protocol.

  3) Azure Queues : The Azure Queue service is used to store and retrieve messages. Queue messages can be up to
  64 KB in size, and a queue can contain millions of messages. Queues are generally used to store lists of
  messages to be processed asynchronously.

  How to create an Azure Storage Account using Azure CLI
  ## Important Command
    az storage account create --name demolalla --resource-group learn-63e732aa-89cf-4b11-bc3f-c0921c83d27a --location centralindia --kind StorageV2 --sku Standard_LRS --access-tier Hot

    In the above command,
    az storage account create --> Azure CLI command to create a new storage account
    --name --> name of the storage account. Can be anything between 3 to 24 character long. Globally unique and contains only letters and numbers
    --resource-group --> name of the resource group in which storage account will be provisioned
    --location --> data center where this storage account will be provisioned. Below are some values for this attributes
                  westus2
                  southcentralus
                  centralus
                  eastus
                  westeurope
                  southeastasia
                  japaneast
                  brazilsouth
                  australiasoutheast
                  centralindia

      In order to create a new app in Azure CLI use following command,
      dotnet new console --name <name of the application>

      to run the application from Azure CLI use following command,
      dotnet run

      to add WindowsAzure.Storage in your account run following command,
      dotnet add package WindowsAzure.Storage

      After creating Azure Storage account and adding client libraries in your application, you will need two
      pieces of information to connect to Azure Storage account from your application
      1) An Access Key : Each storage account has two access keys. Any of them can be used to connect to stroage account.
      2) REST API Endpoint : The REST endpoint is a combination of your storage account name, the data type, and a known domain.
      For example in case of Azure Blob it would be like https://[name].blob.core.windows.net/

      You can combine these two pieces of information in Azure Storage Account connection strings and use it to
      connect to your storage account from the application.

      Shared Access Signatures (SAS)

      You use touch tool to create a new file in Azure CLI
      for example touch appsettings.json

      You use code . command to open the file in Cloud shell for editing.

      To get the connection string for your storage account, use the following command from Azure CLI

      In order to see the connection string for your storage account, use the following command,

      /*IMPORTANT*/
      az storage account show-connection-string \
      --name <name of the storage account> \
      --resouce-group <name of the resource-group> \
      --query connectionString

    Azure Storage client library object model
      The foundation of the storage account object model in the .NET Core client library is the class
      CloudStorageAccount. The simplest way to initialize the object model is to use CloudStorageAccount.Parse
      or CloudStorageAccount.TryParse to parse the connection string.

    To delete an app use following command,

    rm -r PhotoSharingApp
