## Secure your Azure Storage Account

Explore Azure Storage Security Features
  1) Encryption at rest : All the data stored in azure storage is by default encrypted using 256-bit advanced
     encryption standard (AES) cipher. Azure's storage service encryption (SSE) does this job.

  2) Encryption in transit : You can enable HTTPS and SMB 3.0 or above protocol to enable transport layer security.

  3) CORS Support : CORS stands for Cross Origin Resource Sharing. It allows web apps to access the resources from
     a server at a different domain. It is an optional feature which you can enable in your storage account.

  4) Role-based Access Control (RBAC) : Storage account support Azure Active Directory authentication and RBAC based
     authorization for resource management and data operations.

  5) Auditing Access : Using in-built Storage Analytics Service you can audit Azure Storage Access.

Understand Storage Account Keys
  In azure storage accounts shared keys are called as storage account keys. Azure creates two of these keys (Primary and
  Secondary) for every storage account you create. The keys gives access to everything in account.

Understand Shared Access Signature
  You can use Shared Access Signature aka SAS to give access to third party application on your storage account.
  There are two types of SAS,
  1) Service Level SAS
  2) Account Level SAS

Control network access to your storage account
  You can manage network access rules to your storage account from Azure Portal, Azure CLI and Azure Powershell.
  From Azure Portal, you can make changes by clicking on Firewall and Virtual Networks.

Understand Advanced Threat Protection for Azure Storage
  Advanced Threat protection detects anomaly in access patterns of your storage account. It then notifies you
  about any such event. As of now it is available for Blob Service.

Understand Azure Data Lake Storage Security Features
  Azure Data Lake Storage supports RBAC,ACL, Azure AD to make it a highly secure data storage solution.
