# Build and Query a Delta Lake (Mind it - it is not Data Lake)

Delta Lake is a file format that integrates with Spark and has both open-source and managed offerings. Delta Lake is provided as a managed offering as part of your Azure Databricks account, and helps you combine the best capabilities of Data Lake, data warehousing, and a streaming ingestion system.

Describe the open source delta lake
  Delta Lake is a transactional storage layer designed specifically to work with Apache Spark and Databricks File System (DBFS). At the core of Delta Lake is an optimized Spark table. It stores your data as Apache Parquet files in DBFS and maintains a transaction log that efficiently tracks changes to the table.

Data Lake
  A data lake is a storage repository that inexpensively stores a vast amount of raw data, both current and historical, in native formats such as XML, JSON, CSV, and Parquet. It may contain operational relational databases with live transactional data.

  Enterprises have been spending millions of dollars getting data into data lakes with Apache Spark. The aspiration is to do data science and ML on all that data using Apache Spark.

  There are problems while working with data directly stored in Data Lake due to performance, format or data related issues. Delta Lake solves this problem.

Delta Lake
  Delta Lake is a file format that can help you build a data lake comprised of one or many tables in Delta Lake format. Delta Lake integrates tightly with Apache Spark, and uses an open format that is based on Parquet. Because it is an open-source format, Delta Lake is also supported by other data platforms, including Azure Synapse Analytics.
  Delta Lake is an open-source storage layer that brings ACID transactions to Apache Spark™ and big data workloads.
  You can read and write data that's stored in Delta Lake by using Apache Spark SQL batch and streaming APIs. These are the same familiar APIs that you use to work with Hive tables or DBFS directories. Delta Lake provides the following functionality:

  ACID Transactions: Data lakes typically have multiple data pipelines reading and writing data concurrently, and data engineers have to go through a tedious process to ensure data integrity, due to the lack of transactions. Delta Lake brings ACID transactions to your data lakes. It provides serializability, the strongest level of isolation level.

  Scalable Metadata Handling: In big data, even the metadata itself can be "big data". Delta Lake treats metadata just like data, leveraging Spark's distributed processing power to handle all its metadata. As a result, Delta Lake can handle petabyte-scale tables with billions of partitions and files at ease.

  Time Travel (data versioning): Delta Lake provides snapshots of data enabling developers to access and revert to earlier versions of data for audits, rollbacks or to reproduce experiments.

  Open Format: All data in Delta Lake is stored in Apache Parquet format enabling Delta Lake to leverage the efficient compression and encoding schemes that are native to Parquet.

  Unified Batch and Streaming Source and Sink: A table in Delta Lake is both a batch table, as well as a streaming source and sink. Streaming data ingest, batch historic backfill, and interactive queries all just work out of the box.

  Schema Enforcement: Delta Lake provides the ability to specify your schema and enforce it. This helps ensure that the data types are correct and required columns are present, preventing bad data from causing data corruption.

  Schema Evolution: Big data is continuously changing. Delta Lake enables you to make changes to a table schema that can be applied automatically, without the need for cumbersome DDL.

  100% Compatible with Apache Spark API: Developers can use Delta Lake with their existing data pipelines with minimal change as it is fully compatible with Spark, the commonly used big data processing engine.

/*IMPORTANT*/ - Please look into the syntax of working with Delta Lake in Azure Databricks.

BASIC SYNTAX
    1) UPSERT (UPDATE and INSERT)
    2) TIME TRAVEL SYNTAX

/*IMPORTANT*/ - Please go through the all notebooks of this module and learn basic syntax    
