Data engineers who work on enterprise-level projects provide data to a variety of professionals, ranging from
information workers to data scientists.

There are three main roles which are being sought in data engineering projects
  1) Data Engineer
  2) Data Scientist
  3) Artificial Intelligence (AI) Engineer

Data Engineer is responsible for designing, developing, implementing and maintaining data solutions. He is
responsible for getting, ingesting, transforming, validating and cleaning up of the data to meet business
requirement.
Data Engineer is also responsible for data security and data availability of a  data solutions. He is responsible
for connecting data source with their target services using ETL pipelines.

Data Scientist performs advanced analytics on large amounts of data delivered by Data Engineer.

AI engineers work with AI services such as Cognitive Services, Cognitive Search, and Bot Framework. Cognitive
Services includes Computer Vision, Text Analytics, Bing Search, and Language Understanding (LUIS).

Tasks of a Data Engineer
  1) Design and develop data storage and data processing solutions for the enterprise.
  2) Set up and deploy cloud-based data services such as blob services, databases, and analytics.
  3) Secure the platform and the stored data. Make sure only the necessary users can access the data.
  4) Ensure business continuity in uncommon conditions by using techniques for high availability and disaster recovery.
  5) Monitor to ensure that the systems run properly and are cost-effective.

a) Moving data around
    Data engineers are responsible for designing and developing ETL processes.
      1) Extract
        Define Data Source
        Define Data Format

      2) Transform
        Define Data Transformation Steps

      3) Load
        Define the destination
        Start the job
        Monitor the job

 b) ETL tools
     You can use multiple ETL tools as Data Engineer. The most common ETL tool is Azure Data Factory.

There are other data transformation processes which are evolving from traditional ETL thanks to Azure. Two
of them are,
  1) ELT - Extract Load Transform
  2) ELTL - Extract Load Transform Load

Holistic Data Engineering
  a) Source
  b) Ingest
  c) Prepare
  d) Analyze
  e) Consume
