Introduction to Azure SQL

Azure SQL History
  New Cloud Computing Operating System "Windows Azure" was announced in 2010.
  SQL Azure was part of this offering. This service was created to provide a cloud hosted version of SQL Server.
  Windows Azure was later renamed Microsoft Azure. SQL Azure was later renamed to Azure SQL.

Azure SQL Deployment Options

  a) SQL Server on Virtual Machines (IaaS): You are in control. You are responsible for OS and SQL Server patches. Azure can help in automating backup and security patches.
  b) SQL Managed Instance (PaaS): Best option in the scenarios where you want to use instance scoped feature of SQL Server and want to migrate to Azure without rearchitecting your application. This deployment option is not tied to a version of SQL Server.
  SQL Managed Instance instance-scoped features include SQL Server Agent, Service Broker, common language runtime (CLR), Database Mail, linked servers, and Machine Learning Services Preview.
  c) SQL Database (PaaS): SQL Database is a PaaS deployment option of Azure SQL that abstracts both the OS and the SQL Server instance away from users. SQL Database is also the only deployment option that supports scenarios that require unlimited database storage (hyperscale) and autoscaling for unpredictable workloads (serverless).
  d) Elastic Database Pool (PaaS): There are two types
      1) SQL Database Elastic Pool : SQL Database elastic pools allow you to host many databases within a single set of provisioned SQL Database resources. This option is ideal for a Software as a Service (SaaS) provider. You can deploy one database per client and monitor it.
      2) SQL Managed Instance Pool : SQL Managed Instance pools allow you to host multiple managed instances and share resources. You can pre-provision compute resources. This feature is right now in public preview.

Purchasing Models
  1) vCores
  2) DTU Based (Not available for Azure SQL Managed Instance)

In vCore purchasing model, you pay for
  a) Compute Resources (Service Tier + Number of vCores + the Generation of Hardware)
  b) The type and amount of data and log storage
  c) Backup Storage

Service Tier
  a) General Purpose : Suitable for most business workloads
  b) Business Critical : Suitable for business applications with low latency response requirements. This service tier is highly resilient to failures. In memory OLTP support.
  c) hyperscale : Suitable for business workloads with highly scalable storage and read scale requirement. Currently it is only available for single databases in Azure SQL database.

If you choose General Purpose and the vCore-based model, you have an additional decision to make regarding the compute that you pay for:

  a) Provisioned compute is meant for more regular usage patterns with higher average compute utilization over time, or for multiple databases that use elastic pools.
  b) Serverless compute is meant for intermittent, unpredictable usage with lower average compute utilization over time. Serverless has autopause and resume capabilities with a time delay that you set. When your database is paused, you pay only for storage.

Hardware : The most recent hardware generation is referred to as Gen5 in Azure. Gen4 is also available in some cases but it will start getting phased out from 2020.

Management interfaces for Azure SQL
  
