# Create an Azure Cosmos DB built to Scale

Create an Azure Cosmos DB account in Azure Portal
  a) What is Azure Cosmos DB Account
      An Azure Cosmos DB account is an Azure resource that acts as an organizational entity for your databases. It connects your usage to your Azure subscription for billing purposes.
      /*Important*/ : Each account is associated with any ONE of the several data models Cosmos DB supports and you can create as many accounts as you need.

      /*Note*/ :- SQL API is preferred if you are creating a new application using Azure Cosmos DB account.

      Exercise :- Create an Azure Cosmos DB account from Azure Portal.

What is a request unit?
  Azure Cosmos DB measures throughput using request units (RU). Since usage is measured per second the unit of measure becomes Request Units per Second RU/s.
  One request unit is equal to the cost of performing a GET request on 1 KB document stored in Cosmos DB using a Document ID. This is only select operation.
  Creation, Insertion and Deletion related to document requires more operations thus more request units are required.

Request Unit Considerations
  While you estimate the number of RUs per second to provision, consider the following factors:

  Item size: As the size of an item increases, the number of RUs consumed to read or write the item also increases.

  Item indexing: By default, each item is automatically indexed. Fewer RUs are consumed if you choose not to index some of your items in a container.

  Item property count: Assuming the default indexing is on all properties, the number of RUs consumed to write an item increases as the item property count increases.

  Indexed properties: An index policy on each container determines which properties are indexed by default. To reduce the RU consumption for write operations, limit the number of indexed properties.

  Data consistency: The strong and bounded staleness consistency levels consume approximately two times more RUs on read operations when compared to that of other relaxed consistency levels.

  Query patterns: The complexity of a query affects how many RUs are consumed for an operation. Factors that affect the cost of query operations include:

  The number of query results
  The number of predicates
  The nature of the predicates
  The number of user-defined functions
  The size of the source data
  The size of the result set
  Projections
  Azure Cosmos DB guarantees that the same query on the same data always costs the same number of RUs on repeated executions.

  Script usage: As with queries, stored procedures and triggers consume RUs based on the complexity of their operations. As you develop your application, inspect the request charge header to better understand how much RU capacity each operation consumes.

Provisioning throughput for containers and databases
  You can provision throughput for the database and share it between containers or you can provision throughput for the containers. Setting throughput for containers is most widely used options.

Exceeding throughput limit
  If you exceed throughput limit that is provisioned for the Cosmos DB account or container, your request will be rate limited thus increasing latency.
  You can scale your throughput as per the demand from your application.
  When you create an account, you can provision a minimum of 400 RU/s, or a maximum of 250,000 RU/s in the portal. If you need even more throughput, fill out a ticket in the Azure portal.

Choose a partition key for Cosmos DB

  What is partition strategy?
    If you continue to add new data to a single server or a single partition, it will eventually run out of space. A partitioning strategy enables you to add more partitions to your database when need them. This scaling strategy is called scale out or horizontal scaling.
    A partition key defines the partition strategy, it's set when you create a container and can't be changed. Selecting the right partition key is an important decision to make early in your development process.

  What is partition key?
    A partition key is the value by which Azure organizes your data into logical divisions. It should aim to evenly distribute operations across the database to avoid hot partitions. A hot partition is a single partition that receives many more requests than the others, which can create a throughput bottleneck. For example a good partition key will be user_id or product_id.

    /*IMPORTANT*/
    The amount of required RU's and storage determines the number of required physical partitions for the container, which are completely managed by Azure Cosmos DB. When additional physical partitions are needed, Cosmos DB automatically creates them by splitting existing ones. There is no downtime or performance impact for the application.

    The storage space for the data associated with each partition key can't exceed 20 GB, which is the size of one physical partition in Azure Cosmos DB. So, if your single userID or productId record is going to be larger than 20 GB, think about using a composite key instead so that each record is smaller.

Create a database and container in Azure Cosmos DB using Portal.
    Cosmos DB account - Data Explorer - New Container - Database Id - Container Id - Partition Key

Create a database and container in Azure Cosmos DB using Azure CLI
    Step 1: Create a COSMOS DB account. To create a COSMOS DB account define a new variable as below,
        export NAME="rishabh-cosmosdb-2"

    Step 2: Create account using above variable. Below is the Azure CLI command to create Cosmos DB account.
        az cosmosdb create \
         --name $NAME \
         --kind GlobalDocumentDB \
         --resource-group learn-6c80db08-c98f-40c2-ac53-acac20d0e53b

    Step 3: Once your account is created in Step 2. You then go ahead with creation of Database and Container in Azure CLI. You should use following command,
        az cosmosdb sql database create \
            --account-name $NAME  \ #Coming from step 2
            --name "Products"  \
            --resource-group learn-6c80db08-c98f-40c2-ac53-acac20d0e53b

    Step 4: Once you are done with the database creation. Create a container in the database with partition key using following command.
        az cosmosdb sql container create \
            --account-name $NAME \
            --database-name "Products" \
            --name "Clothing" \
            --partition-key-path "/productId" \
            --throughput 1000 \
            --resource-group learn-6c80db08-c98f-40c2-ac53-acac20d0e53b
