# Create an Storage Account
  Decide how many storage account do you need
    What is Azure Storage?
    Azure storage is collection of four data services
      a) Azure Files
      b) Azure Blobs
      c) Azure Queues
      d) Azure Tables

    What is a Storage Account?
    A storage account is a container that groups a set of Azure Storage services together. Only data services
    from Azure Storage can be included in a storage account (Azure Blobs, Azure Files, Azure Queues, and Azure Tables).
    Deleting the storage account will store all data stored in it. A storage account is resource which is
    included in Resource Group.

    Storage Account Settings
    A storage account defines a policy that applies to all the storage services in the account.
    a) Subscription
    b) Location
    c) Performance
        1) Standard: It allows you to have any data service (Blob, File, Queue, Table) and uses magnetic disk drives.
        2) Premium : Premium storage account gives additional Performance over Standard using Solid State Drives SSD.
    d) Replication :
        1) LRS : Create 3 copies of data in same data center
        2) GRS : Create 3 copies of data in different data centers around the world
    e) Access Tier
        1) Hot
        2) Cool
        3) Archived
    f) Secure Transfer Required: A security feature that determines the supported protocols for access. Enabled requires
    HTTPs, while disabled allows HTTP
    g) Virtual networks: A security feature that allows inbound access requests only from the virtual network(s) you specify.

    How many storage accounts do you need?
    It depends on following factors,
      1) Data Diversity
      2) Cost Sensitivity
      3) Tolerance for management overhead

    Choose your account Settings
      You need three pieces of information to create a storage account in azure
        1) A name : Each storage account has a name. The name must be globally unique within Azure, use only
        lowercase letters and digits and be between 3 and 24 characters.
        2) Deployment Model : A deployment model is the system Azure uses to organize your resources. The model defines the API
        that you use to create, configure, and manage those resources. Azure provides two deployment models:
            a) Resource Manager: the current model that uses the Azure Resource Manager API
            b) Classic: a legacy offering that uses the Azure Service Management API

        Note: Most of the resources in Azure only support Resource Manager deployment model but in case of
        storage accounts, virtual machines and virtual networks you have to choose from the two options.
        Resource Manager deployment model supports Resource Group allows you to create, configure and manage
        your storage services as a collection. This is not the case with Classic model.
        Azure recommends use of Resource Manager Deployment model for all new resources.

        3) Account kind: Storage account kind is a set of policies that determine which data services you can
        include in the account and the pricing of those services. There are three kinds of storage accounts:
            a) StorageV2 (general purpose v2): the current offering that supports all storage types and all of the latest features
            b) Storage (general purpose v1): a legacy kind that supports all storage types but may not support all features
            c) Blob storage: a legacy kind that allows only block blobs and append blobs

        Microsoft recommends use of StorageV2 for all new storage accounts.

    Choose your account creation tools
      There are many tools available to create storage accounts in Azure. Below is the list of most popular
      ones,
      a) Azure Portal
      b) Azure CLI
      c) Azure Powershell
      d) Management Client Libraries
