You must answer below questions in order to choose best storage solution for your application in Azure
  1) How to classify your data
  2) How your data will be used
  3) How you can get best performance for your application

Classify your data first
  There are three broad categories of data which is used in day to day business operations
    1) Structured - Data has strict structure and its stored in relation databases
    2) Semi-structured - Data has loose structure making it flexible enough to accommodate changes without affecting storage that much. It is also referred to as NoSQL data or Non-relational data. The expression and structure of the data in this style is defined by a serialization language.

    /*IMPORTANT*/ :- Data serialization language is a tool to exchange the non-relational data between two separate systems. Software developers use serialization language to express structure of the data. As long as same serialization language is used on both sending and receiving end, data can be easily written, sent, received, parsed and consumed without much efforts from application developers.
    There are 3 most common serialization languages used as of now
      a) XML - eXtensible Markup Language. Depends on angled braces <>
      b) JSON - JavaScript Object Notation. Depends on curly braces {}
      c) YAML - YAML Ain't Markup Language. Depends on new line separation and indentation
    3) Unstructured - Data is in the binary format or in the format which does not support structure.

Determine Operational Needs
  What are your operational and performance requirements?

Group Multiple operations in a transaction
  You need to group a set of tasks in transaction in order to make sure all of them are completed in order to make changes in the application data.

  A transaction is a logical group of database operations that execute together.
  Transaction properties
    a) Atomicity
    b) Consistency
    c) Isolation
    d) Durability

    OLTP vs OLAP

Choose a storage solution on Azure
  Choosing the correct storage solution can lead to better performance, cost savings, and improved manageability.

  /*IMPORTANT*/

  The points given below can be used to determine right data storage option in a particular scenario. For example
  In case of product catalog data,

  Data classification: Semi-structured because of the need to extend or modify the schema for new products

  Operations: Customers require a high number of read operations, with the ability to query on many fields within the database. The business requires a high number of write operations to track the constantly changing inventory.

  Latency & throughput: High throughput and low latency

  Transactional support: Required

  Recommended service: Azure Cosmos DB
