Describe SQL Server query plans

  Describe types of query plans
    SQL Server uses what is known as cost-based query optimizer. The query optimizer calculates a cost for multiple possible plans based on the statistics it has on the columns being utilized, and the possible indexes that can be used for each operation in each query plan. Based on this information, it comes up with a total cost for each plan. Some complex queries can have thousands of possible execution plans. The optimizer does not evaluate every possible plan, but uses heuristics to determine plans that are likely to have good performance. The optimizer will then choose the lowest cost plan of all the plans evaluated for a given query.

    When a user submits a query to the database engine, the following process happens:

        The query is parsed for proper syntax and a parse tree of database objects is generated if the syntax is correct.
        The parse tree from Step 1 is taken as input to a database engine component called the Algebrizer for binding. This step validates that columns and objects in the query exist and identifies the data types that are being processed for a given query. This step outputs a query processor tree which is in the input for step 3.
        Because query optimization is a relatively expensive process in terms of CPU consumption, the database engine caches execution plans in a special area of memory called the plan cache. If a plan for a given query already exists, that plan is retrieved from the cache. The queries whose plans are stored in cache will each have a hash value generated based on the T-SQL in the query. This value is referred to as the query_hash. When looking for a plan in cache, the engine will generate a query_hash for the current query and then look to see if it matches any existing queries in the plan case.
        If the plan does not exist, the Query Optimizer then uses its cost-based optimizer to generate several execution plan options based on the statistics about the columns, tables, and indexes that are used in the query, as described above. The output of this step is a query execution plan.
        The query is then executed using an execution plan that is pulled from the plan cache, or a new plan generated in step 4. The output of this step is the results of your query.

    There are three different types of execution plans that can be viewed.

        Estimated Execution Plan: - This type is the execution plan as generated by the query optimizer. The metadata and size of query memory grant are based on estimates from the statistics as they exist in the database at the time of query compilation. To see a text-based estimated plan run the command SET SHOWPLAN_ALL ON before running the query. When you run the query, you will see the steps of the execution plan, but the query will NOT be executed, and you will not see any results. The SET option will stay in effect until you set it OFF.

        Actual Execution Plan: - This type is same plan as the estimated plan; however this plan also contains the execution context for the query, which includes the estimated and actual row counts, any execution warnings, the actual degree of parallelism (number of processors used) and elapsed and CPU times used during the execution. To see a text-based actual plan run the command SET STATISTICS PROFILE ON before running the query. The query will execute, and you get the plan and the results.

        Live Query Statistics: - This plan viewing option combines the estimated and actual plans into an animated plan that displays execution progress through the operators in the plan. It refreshes every second and shows the actual number of rows flowing through the operators. The other benefit to Live Query Statistics is that it shows the handoff from operator to operator, which may be helpful in troubleshooting some performance issues. Because the type of plan is animated, it is only available as a graphical plan.

  Explain estimated and actual query plan

    The topic of actual versus estimated execution plans can be confusing. The difference is that the actual plan includes runtime statistics that are not captured in the estimated plan.

  Identify problematic query plans

    The path most DBAs take to troubleshoot query performance is to first identify the problematic query (typically the query consuming the highest amount of system resources), and then retrieve that query’s execution plan. There are two scenarios. One is that the query consistently performs poorly. Consistent poor performance can be caused by a few different problems, including hardware resource constraints (though this situation typically will not affect a single query running in isolation), a suboptimal query structure, database compatibility settings, missing indexes, or poor choice of plan by the query optimizer. The second scenario is that the query performs well for some executions, but not others. This problem can be caused by a few other factors, the most common being data skew in a parameterized query that has an efficient plan for some executions, and a poor one for other executions. The other common factors in inconsistent query performance are blocking, where a query is waiting on another query to complete in order to gain access to a table, or hardware contention.

    Hardware Constraints

    Suboptimal Query Constructs

    SARGArbility

    Missing Indexes

    Missing and out of date statistics

    Poor optimizer choices

    Parameter Sniffing


IMPORTANT NOTE: Please go through these topics once again before sitting for test.
